# hlm_download_management
For EBSCO HLM customers to work with downloaded collection files

Many EBSCO customers (library staff) use EBSCO's holdings management system (known as HLM) to keep track of various library resources (ebooks, journals, streaming media, even print items). But HLM's system for downloading the contents of those holdings is crude and often results in files that are far too big to do anything with in any spreadsheet software. So a database program is needed.
Library staff often do not have access to a database server that they can just put whatever tables they want in.  So a desktop-only option is needed. Some customers may use Microsoft Access, which allows you to manage a database that sits as a single file on your hard drive. But Access is a commercial product and not available for Mac OSX or Linux users.
The free, open source, alternative is called SQLite. It too allows you to manage the contents of a relational database (multiple tables that link to each other) where the database is just a file on your hard drive, and is portable - can be copied as a simple file from one computer to another. 
SQLite is "natively" a command line interface, but there are several excellent open source graphical front ends that can work well with SQLite.
I (Melissa Belvadi) personally prefer DBeaver, which comes in free and premium editions, and is compatible with all of Windows, Mac, and Linux.

The purpose of this project is to share code for building and working with an SQLite database generated by a (free, open source) python program from one of those EBSCO HLM download files.   This includes the basic instructions on what settings to use when you generate your HLM file, how to use the python program provided here, and many examples of sql scripts you can use in Dbeaver or your choice of SQL GUI to do useful (to library staff) work with that data.
